 .......................... ................................................... ............... 2-1576  
*.  [2] {6} 
 *.  *.   
 *.   *.   
  VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
strain rate is used.  EPS1 - EPS8 and ES1 - ES8 are ignored if a 
table ID is deﬁned.  Linear interpolation between t he discrete 
strain rates is used by default. 
Logarithmically Deﬁned Tables.   Logarithmic int erpolation 
between discrete strain rates is assumed if the ﬁrst  value in the 
table is negative, in which case LS-DY NA assumes that all the 
table values represent the natural logarithm of a s train rate.  Since 
the tables are internally discretized to equa lly space the table 
values, it makes good sense from an accuracy standp oint that the 
table values represent the natural log of strain ra te when the 
lowest strain rate and highest strain rate diﬀer by  several orders 
of magnitude.  There is some additional computational cost 
associated with invoking logarithmic interpolation.   
Multi-Dimensional Tables.   Stress values can also be dependent 
upon history variables.  The 3D table gives stress versus plastic 
strain as a function of strain rates as a function of o ne history 
variable (see HISVN).  The 4D table gives stress ve rsus plastic 
strain as a function of strain rates as a function of two history 
variable values (see HISVN). 
VP Formulation for rate eﬀects: 
EQ.0.0: Scale yield stress (default) 
EQ.1.0: Viscoplastic formulation 
HISVN Location of the history variable in the histo ry array of *INITIAL_-
STRESS_SHELL/SOLID that is used to evaluate the 3D table LC-
SS. If a 4D table is used, then HISVN is the locati on of the history 
variable for the *TABLE_3D value, and HISVN + 1 is the location 
of the history variable for the *TABLE_4D values.  
PHASE Constant value to evaluate the 3D table LC SS. PHASE is only 
used if HISVN = 0. 
EPS1 - EPS8 Eﬀective plastic strain values (optiona l).  At least 2 points should 
be deﬁned.  The ﬁrst point must be zero correspondi ng to the 
initial yield stress. 
ES1 - ES8 Corresponding yield stress values to EPS1  - EPS8 *