: *.  
*.   
 *.   *.   
  VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
plastic strain for that temperature. 
LCF Load curve ID or table ID. The load curve speciﬁes plastic failure 
strain as a function of triaxiality.  The table spe ciﬁes for each Lode 
parameter a load curve ID giving the plastic failur e strain versus 
triaxiality for that Lode parameter.  (Table opti on not yet 
generally supported). 
LCG Load curve ID for specifying plastic failure strain  as a function of 
plastic strain rate. 
LCH Load curve ID for specifying plastic failure strain  as a function of 
temperature 
LCI Load curve ID or table ID. The load c urve ID deﬁnes plastic 
failure strain as a function of element size.  The table ID deﬁnes 
for each triaxiality a load curve ID giving the pla stic failure strain 
versus element size for that triaxiality. 
LCCR Table ID. The curves in this table deﬁne com pressive yield stress 
as a function of plastic strain or eﬀective plastic  strain (see 
IFLAG).  The table ID deﬁnes for each plastic strai n rate value or 
eﬀective plastic strain rate value a load curve ID giving the 
(isothermal) compressive yield stress as a function of plastic 
strain or eﬀective plastic strain for that rate. 
LCCT Table ID deﬁning for each temperature value a load curve ID 
giving the (quasi- static) compressive yield stress as a function of 
strain for that temperature.  The curves in th is table deﬁne 
compressive yield stress as a function of plastic s train or eﬀective 
plastic strain (see IFLAG). 
LCSR Table ID. The load curves deﬁne shear yield stress in function of 
plastic strain or eﬀective plastic strain (see IFLA G).  The table ID 
deﬁnes for each plastic strain rate value or eﬀecti ve plastic strain 
rate value a load curve ID giving the (isothermal) shear yield 
stress as a function of plastic strain or eﬀective plastic strain for 
that rate. 
LCST Table ID deﬁning for each temperature value a load curve ID 
giving the (quasi- static) shear yield stress as a function of strain 
for that temperature.  The load curves deﬁne shear yield stress as 
a function of plastic strain or eﬀective plastic st rain (see IFLAG). *.   
 History 
Variable # Description 
11 Plastic work 
12 Damage 
13 Element size 
14 Temperature 
16 Plastic strain in compression 
17 Plastic strain in shear *