 ...................................... ................................................... ............................. 2-1304  
*.  [1H] {60} 
 *.  *.   
 *.   *.   
  VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
LCSHH Load curve ID (see *DEFINE_CURVE) giving shea r force as a 
function of deformation (head)  
LCBMH Load curve ID, see *DEFINE_ CURVE, giving moment as a 
function of rotation (head) 
SFAXH Scale factor on axial force from curve LCAXH 
SFSHH Scale factor on shear force from curve LCSHH 
SFBMH Scale factor on bending moment from curve LCB MH 
DFAXH Optional displacement to start of softening i n axial load (head) 
DFSHH Optional displacement to start of softening i n shear load (head) 
RFBMH Optional rotation (radians) to start of bending mom ent softening 
(head) 
DMFAXH Scale factor on DFAXH 
DMFSHH Scale factor on FFSHH 
DMFBMH Scale factor on RFBMH 
LCAXT Load curve ID (see *DEFINE_CURVE) giving axia l force as a 
function of deformation (tail)  
LCSHT Load curve ID (see *DEFINE_CURVE) giving shea r force as a 
function of deformation (tail)  
LCBMT Load curve ID (see *DEFINE_CURVE) giving mome nt as a 
function of rotation (tail) 
SFAXT Scale factor on axial force from curve LCAXT 
SFSHT Scale factor on shear force from curve LCSHT 
SFBMT Scale factor on bending moment from curve LCB MT 
DFAXT Optional displacement to start of softening i n axial load (tail) 
DFSHT Optional displacement to start of softening i n shear load (tail) 
RFBMT Optional rotation (radians) to start of bending mom ent softening 
(tail) *.   
 6.  Elastic Stiffness.   The ﬁrst two points of the load curve deﬁne the e lastic 
stiﬀness, which is used for unloading.  
7.  HELAS and TELAS.   If HELAS > 0, the remainder of the head load curv es after 
the ﬁrst two points is ignored and no softening or failure occurs.  The same 
applies for TELAS and the tail load curves. 
8.  Deformation and Rotation of the SPR.   Axial deformation is deﬁned as 
change of length of the line between the tail and h ead of the SPR. This line also 
deﬁnes the direction in which the axial force is ap plied. 
Shear deformation is deﬁned as motion of the tail a nd head points, in the sheet 
planes.  This deformation is not necessarily perpen dicular to axial deformation.  
Shear forces in these planes are controlled by the load curves LCSHT and LC-
SHH. 
Rotation at the tail is deﬁned as rotation of the t ail-to-head line relative to the 
normal of the tail sheet plane; and for the head, r elative to the normal of the 
head sheet plane. 
9.  Element Formulation.   Although ELFORM = 1 is used in the input data, 
*. ; for exam- 
ple, a single *. .  
11.  SWFORC ﬁle.   Output to the swforc  ﬁle works in the same way as for 
spotwelds.  Although inside the material model the load curves LCSHT and 
LCSHH control “shear” forces in the sheet planes, i n the swforc  ﬁle the quoted 
shear force is the force normal to the axis of the SPR.  
12.  Softening.   Before an element fails, it enters a “softening” regime in which the 
forces, moments and stiﬀnesses are ramped down as d isplacement increases 
(this avoids sudden shocks when the element is dele ted).  For example, for 
axial loading at the head, softening begins when th e maximum axial displace- 
ment exceeds DFAXH. As the displacement increases b eyond that point, the 
load curve will be ignored for that deformation com ponent.  The forces, mo- 
ments and stiﬀnesses are ramped down linearly with increasing displacement 
and reach zero at displacement = DFAX H × (1 + DMFAX H ) when the element 
is deleted.  The softening factor scales all the fo rce and moment components at 
both head and tail.  Thus, all the force and moment  components are reduced 
when any one displacement component enters the soft ening regime.  For ex- 
ample, if DFAXT = 3.0mm, and DMFAXT = 0.1, then sof tening begins when 
axial displacement of the tail reaches 3.0 mm and ﬁ nal failure occurs at 3.3 mm. *.   
 reached so far, with 1.0 being the point of maximum  force or moment on 
the input curve.  
b)  |u1D44J  =  1.0 to 2.0 .  The element has passed the point of maximum forc e but 
has not yet entered the softening regime. |u1D44J rises linearly with displace- 
ment (or rotation) from 1.0 when maximum force occu rs to 2.0 when sof- 
tening begins.  
c)  |u1D44J  =  2.0 to 3.0 .  Softening is occurring. |u1D44J rises linearly with displacement 
from 2.0 at the onset of softening to 3.0 when the element is deleted. 
The displacement (or rotation) ratio is calculated separately for axial, shear and 
bending at the tail and head (see Remark 16  below).  The output listed by post-
processors as “plastic strain” is actually the maxi mum displacement or rotation 
ratio of any displacement or rotation component at head or tail.  This same 
variable is also output as “Failure” in the spotwel d data in the swforc  ﬁle (or 
the swforc section of the binout  ﬁle). 
16.  Additional History Variables.   The additional history variables are listed in 
the table below.   
 
History 
Variable # Description 
1 Failure time (used for swforc  ﬁle) 
2 Softening factor used internally to prevent abrupt 
failure. 
3 Displacement ratio – axial, head 
4 Displacement ratio – axial, tail 
5 Displacement ratio – shear, head 
6 Displacement ratio – shear, tail 
7 Rotation ratio – bending, head 
8 Rotation ratio – bending, tail 
9 Used for swforc  output 
10 Shear force in “beam” |u1D46J-axis 
11 Shear force in “beam” |u1D466-axis *.   
 History 
Variable # Description 
34 Shear displacement – local |u1D46J-axis, head 
35 Shear displacement – local |u1D466-axis, head 
36 Shear displacement – local |u1D46J-axis, tail 
37 Shear displacement – local |u1D466-axis, tail 
38 Total displacement – axial  
39 Current rotation (radians) – head, local |u1D46J-axis 
40 Current rotation (radians) – head, local |u1D466-axis 
41 Current rotation (radians) – tail, local |u1D46J-axis 
42 Current rotation (radians) – tail, local |u1D466-axis *