, or the material is *.  . 
TFAIL ALPH SOFT FBRT     
Card 6a.   This card is included if the 2WAY ﬂag is 0. 
XC XT YC YT SC CRIT BETA  
Card 6b.   This card is included if the 2WAY ﬂag is 1. 
XC XT YC YT SC CRIT BETA  
Card 7.   This card is only included for *. . 
 Card 5b 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Variable TFAIL ALPH SOFT FBRT     
Type F F F F     
 
 VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
TFAIL Time step size criteria for element deletion:  
LE.0.0: No element deletion by time step size.  The 
crashfront algorithm only works if TFAIL is 
set to a value greater than zero. 
GT.0.0.and.LE.0.1: Element is deleted when its time step is 
smaller than the given value. 
GT.0.1: Element is deleted when the quotient of the 
actual time step and the original time step 
drops below the given value. 
ALPH Shear stress parameter for the nonlinear term;  see *.  Failure Criteria 
For the Tsai-Wu (*. , an integration point is deleted (all s tresses go to zero) only if the 
tensile stress at that point reaches XT. Other stre ngths, XC, YT, YC, SC serve to 
cap stresses but do not delete the integration poin t. 
When failure has occurred in all the composite laye rs (through-thickness inte- 
gration points), the element is deleted.  For brick s, the element is deleted after 
one integration point has met the failure criteria.   
2.  Crashfront Elements and Strength Reduction.   Elements which share nodes 
with a deleted element become “crashfront” elements  and can have their 
strengths reduced by using the SOFT parameter with TFAIL greater than zero.  
An earlier initiation of crashfront elements is pos sible by using parameter PFL.  
An optional direction dependent strength reduction can be invoked by setting 
0 < SOFT2 < 1. Then, SOFT equals a strength reducti on factor for ﬁber parallel 
failure and SOFT2 equals a strength reduction facto r for ﬁber orthogonal fail- 
ure.  Linear interpolation is used for angles in be tween.  See Figure M54-1 . 
3.  Transverse Shear Strain Damage Model.  In an optional damage model for 
transverse shear strain, out-of-plane stiﬀness (GBC  and GCA) can linearly de- 
crease to model interlaminar shear failure.  Damage  starts when eﬀective 
transverse shear strain 
|u1D7≠≠|fiveCst|sixCst eﬀ =/radical.v2|u1D7≠≠|u1D466Cst|u1D467Cst |twoCst+ |u1D7≠≠|u1D467Cst|u1D46JCst |twoCst 
reaches EPSF. Final rupture occurs when eﬀective tr ansverse shear strain 
reaches EPSR. A maximum damage of TSMD (0.0 < TSMD < 0.99) cannot be 
exceeded.  See Figure M54-2 . transverse shear stiﬀness  
transverse shear D = TSM D = 0 
EPSF  EPSR  GBC, 
GCA  
Figure M54-2.   Linear Damage for transverse shear behavior *