: *. : *.  
*.   
 *.   *.   
  VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
STIFFV Vertical stiﬀness (force/length units) 
ITYPE Type: 
EQ.0: sliding (spherical or cylindrical) 
EQ.1: elastomeric 
EQ.2: sliding (two perpendicular curved beams)  
EQ.3: lead rubber bearing 
EQ.4: high damping rubber bearing  
EQ.5: sliding with rim failure 
 
 Card 2 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Variable PRELOAD  DAMP MX1 MX2 MY1 MY2 CDE IEXTRA 
Type F F F F F F F I 
Default 0.0 1.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0 
 
 VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
PRELOAD Vertical preload not explicitly modeled (fo rce units) 
DAMP Damping ratio (nondimensional) 
MX1, MX2 Moment factor at ends 1 and 2 in local |u1D46J-direction 
MY1, MY2 Moment factor at ends 1 and 2 in local |u1D466-direction 
CDE Viscous damping coeﬃcient (ITYPE  =  1, 3 or 4)  
IEXTRA If IEXTRA = 1, optional Card 9  will be read 
 *.   
  VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
FORCEY Yield force  
ALPHA Ratio of post-yielding stiﬀness to pre-yieldi ng stiﬀness  
STIFFT Stiﬀness for tensile vertical response (elas tomeric isolator)  
DFAIL Lateral displacement at which the isolator fa ils 
 
This card is included only for ITYPE = 2.  
 Card 4b 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Variable     FMAXYC FMAXXT FMAXYT YLOCK 
Type     F F F F 
Default     FMAX FMAX FMAX 0.0 
 
 VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
FMAXYC Max friction coeﬃcient (dynamic) for local |u1D466-axis (compression) 
FMAXXT Max friction coeﬃcient (dynamic) for local |u1D46J-axis (tension) 
FMAXYT Max friction coeﬃcient (dynamic) for local |u1D466-axis (tension) 
YLOCK Stiﬀness locking the local |u1D466-displacement (optional -single- axis 
sliding)  
 
This card is included only for ITYPE = 3.   
 Card 4c 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Variable FORCEY ALPHA       
Type F F       
Default none 0.0       
 *.   
  
Lead Rubber Bearing Card.  This card is included for ITYPE = 3 only.  Omit for  other 
settings of ITYPE. 
 Card 6 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Variable PCRINI DIAMB FCAV0 CAVK CAVTR CAVA PHIM  
Type F F F F F F F  
Default none none none none none none none  
 
 VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
PCRINI Buckling capacity (force units)  
DIAMB External diameter of bearing (length units)  
FCAV0 Tensile capacity limited by cavitation (force  units)  
CAVK Cavitation parameter (units 1/length)  
TR Total thickness of rubber (length units)  
CAVA Strength degradation parameter (dimensionless)   
PHIM Maximum cavitation damage index (dimensionless ) 
 
High Damping Rubber Bearing Yield Card. This card is included for ITYPE = 4 only.  
Omit for other settings of ITYPE. 
 Card 7 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Variable BETA        
Type F        
Default 0.0        
 
 VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
BETA Quadratic factor for yield force  
 *.   
 the horizontal plane.  The theoretical model has be en correlated to experiments 
on seismic isolators. 
2.  Sliding Surface for Sliding Isolator.   The RADX and RADY inputs for the 
sliding isolator are optional.  If left blank, the sliding surface is assumed to be 
ﬂat.  A cylindrical surface is obtained by deﬁning either RADX or RADY; a 
spherical surface can be deﬁned by setting RADX = R ADY. The eﬀect of the 
curved surface is to add a restoring force proporti onal to the horizontal dis- 
placement from the center.  As seen in elevation, t he top of the isolator will 
follow a curved trajectory, lifting as it displaces  away from the center. 
3.  Vertical Behavior of the Isolator.  The vertical behavior for all types is linear 
elastic, but with diﬀerent stiﬀnesses for tension a nd compression.  By default, 
the tensile stiﬀness is zero for the sliding types.   For the elastomeric type in the 
case of uplift, the tensile stiﬀness will be diﬀere nt from the compressive stiﬀ- 
ness.  For the sliding type, compression is treated  as linear elastic, but no ten- 
sion can be carried. 
4.  Vertical Preload.  Vertical preload can be modeled either explicitly (for 
example, by deﬁning gravity), or by using the PRELO AD input.  PRELOAD 
does not lead to any application of vertical force to the model.  It is added to 
the compression in the element before calculating t he friction force and ten- 
sile/compressive vertical behavior. 
5.  Overview of ITYPE.   Various settings of ITYPE are described as follow s. 
a)  ITYPE = 0 is used to model a single (spherical) pe ndulum bearing.  Triple 
pendulum bearings can be modelled using three of th ese elements in se- 
ries, following the method described by Fenz and Co nstantinou 2008. 
b)  ITYPE = 2 is intended to model uplift-prevention s liding isolators that 
consist of two perpendicular curved beams joined by  a connector that can 
slide in slots on both beams.  The beams are aligne d in the local |u1D46J and |u1D466 
axes, respectively.  The vertical displacement is t he sum of the displace- 
ments induced by the respective curvatures and slid er displacements 
along the two beams.  Single-axis sliding is obtain ed by using YLOCK to 
lock the local |u1D466 displacement.  To resist uplift, STIFFTS must be d eﬁned 
(recommended value: same as STIFFV).  This isolator  type allows for 
diﬀerent friction coeﬃcients on each beam as well a s diﬀerent values in 
tension and compression.  The total friction, takin g into account sliding 
velocity and the friction history functions, is ﬁrs t calculated using FMAX 
which applies to the local |u1D46J-axis when in compression, and then scaled as 
necessary, such as by FMAXXT/FMAX (for the local |u1D46J-axis when in ten- 
sion) and by FMAXYC/FMAX or FMAXYT/FMAX for the |u1D466-axis as ap- 
propriate.  For this reason, FMAX should not be zer o. *.   
 7.  Rotational Stiffness.  By default, this element has no rotational stiﬀness  - a 
pin joint is assumed.  However, if required, “oﬀset  moments” can be generated 
according to the vertical load multiplied by the la teral displacement of the iso- 
lator.  This is invoked using MX1, MX2, MY1, MY2. T he moment about  the local 
|u1D46J-axis (meaning the moment that is dependent on late ral displacement in the 
local |u1D466-direction) is reacted on nodes 1 and 2 of the elem ent in the proportions 
MX1 and MX2, respectively.  Similarly, moments abou t the local |u1D466-axis are 
reacted in the proportions MY1 and MY2. These input s eﬀectively determine 
the location of the pin joint.  
For example, consider an isolator installed between  the top of the foundation 
of a building (Node 1 of the isolator element) and the base of a column of the 
superstructure (Node 2 of the isolator element).  T o model a pin at the base of 
the column and react the oﬀset moment on the founda tion, set 
MX1 = MY1 = 1.0 and MX2 = MY2 = 0.0. For the same m odel, MX1 = MY1 = 0.0 
and MX2 = MY2 = 1.0 would imply a pin at the top of  the foundation - all the 
moment is transferred to the column.  Some isolator  designs have the pin at the 
bottom for moments about one horizontal axis, and a t the top for the other axis 
- these can be modeled by setting MX1 = MY2 = 1.0 a nd MX2 = MY1 = 0.0. 
MX1, MX2, MY1 and MY2 are all expected to be greate r than or equal to 0 and 
less than or equal to 1. Also, if MX1 and MX2 are n ot both zero, then 
MX1 + MX2 is expected to equal 1.0, and similarly f or MY1 and MY2. Howev- 
er, no error checks are performed to ensure this. 
Optionally, rotational stiﬀnesses that resist rotat ion of Node 2 relative to Node 
1 may be deﬁned on Card 9 .  These moments are applied equal and opposite 
on Nodes 1 and 2, irrespective of the settings of M X1, MX2, MY1 and MY2.    
8.  Density.   Density should be set to a reasonable value, say 2000 to 8000 kg/m 3. 
The element mass will be calculated as density × vo lume (volume is entered on 
*SECTION_BEAM). 
9.  SECTION_BEAM Input.  Note on values for *SECTION_BEAM: 
a)  Set ELFORM to 6 (discrete beam). 
b)  VOL (the element volume) might typically be set to  0.1 m3. 
c)  INER always needs to be non-zero.  It will inﬂuenc e the solution only 
when the element has rotational stiﬀness, that is, when any of MX1, MX2, 
MY1, MY2, KTHX, KTHY or KTHZ are non-zero.  A reaso nable value 
might be 10-20 kg-m2. 
d)  CID can be left blank if the isolator is aligned i n the global coordinate sys- 
tem, otherwise a coordinate system should be refere nced. *