 ......... ............................................. 2-775  
*.   *.   *.   
This is Material Type 121.  This is a very general spring and damper model.  This beam 
is based on the .   
  VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
is taken as the loading curve. 
EQ.2.0: Loading follows loading curve; unloading follows 
unloading stiﬀness, K, to the unloading curve.  The  
loading and unloading curves may only intersect at the 
origin of the axes. 
EQ.3.0: Quadratic unloading fr om peak displacement value to 
a permanent oﬀset. 
OFFSET Oﬀset to determine permanent set upon unloading if the 
IUNLD = 3.0.  The permanent sets in compression and tension  are 
equal to the product of this oﬀset value and the ma ximum 
compressive and tensile displacements, respectively . 
DAMPF Damping factor for stability.  Values in the neighb orhood of unity 
are recommended.  This damping factor is properly s caled to 
eliminate time step size dependency.  Also, it is a ctive if and only 
if the local stiﬀness is deﬁned. 
LCIDT Load curve ID deﬁning translational force resultant  along the axis 
as a function of relative translational displacemen t.  If zero, no 
stiﬀness related forces are generated for this degr ee of freedom.  
The loading curves must be deﬁ ned from the most negative 
displacement to the most positive displacement.  Th e force does 
not need to increase monotonically for the loading curve.  The 
curves are extrapolated when the displacement range  falls 
outside the curve deﬁnition. 
LCIDTU Load curve ID deﬁning translational force resultant  along the axis 
as a function of relative translational displacemen t during 
unloading.  The force values deﬁned by this curve m ust increase 
monotonically from the most negative displacement t o the most 
positive displacement.  For IUNLD = 1.0, the slope of this curve 
must equal or exceed the loading curve for stabilit y reasons.  This 
is not the case for IUNLD = 2.0.  For loading and unloading to 
follow the same path simply set LCIDTU = LCIDT. 
LCIDTD Load curve ID deﬁning translational damping force result ant 
along the axis as a function of relative translatio nal velocity. 
LCIDTE Load curve ID deﬁning translational damping force s cale factor as 
a function of relative displacement along the axis.  *