 .................................... ................................................... ......................... 2-1279  
*.  [1D] {16} 
 *.   
For discrete springs and dampers, the following mat erial types are available: 
 *.  *.   *.   
This is Material Type 208 for use with beam element s using ELFORM = 6 (Discrete 
Beam).  The beam elements must have nonzero initial  length so that the directions in 
which tension and compression act can be distinguis hed.  See Remark 1 . 
 
 Card 1 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Variable MID RO KAX KSHR blank blank FPRE TRAMP 
Type A F F F   F F 
Default none none 0.0 0.0   0.0 0.0 
 
 Card 2 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Variable LCAX LCSHR FRIC CLEAR DAFAIL DRFAIL DAMAG T0PRE 
Type I I F F F F F F 
Default 0 0 0.0 0.0 10 20  10 20 0.1 0.0 
 
 Card 3 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Variable DACFAIL AXSHFL HOLSHR      
Type F I I      
Default 10 20  0 0      
 
 VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
MID Material identiﬁcation.  A unique number or label m ust be 
speciﬁed (see *PART). 
RO Mass density 
KAX Axial elastic stiﬀness (Force/Length units) *.   
  VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
KSHR Shear elastic stiﬀness (Force/Length units) 
FPRE Preload force 
TRAMP Time duration during which preload is ramped up 
LCAX Load curve giving axial load as a function of plastic displacement 
(|u1D46J-axis = displacement (length units), |u1D466-axis = force). See 
Remark 2 . 
LCSHR Load curve ID or table ID giving lateral load  as a function of 
plastic displacement ( |u1D46J-axis - displacement (length units), |u1D466-axis -
force).  In the table case, each curve in the table  represents lateral 
load as a function of displacement at a given (current) axial load, 
meaning the values in the table are axial forces. S ee Remark 2 . 
FRIC Friction coeﬃcient resisting sliding of bolt h ead/nut (non-
dimensional) 
CLEAR Radial clearance (gap between bolt shank and the in ner diameter 
of the hole) (length units). See Remark 3 . 
DAFAIL Axial tensile displacement at which failure is initiated (length 
units) 
DRFAIL Radial displacement at which failure is initiated ( excludes 
clearance) 
DAMAG Failure is completed at  
(DAFAIL or DRFAIL or DACFAIL )×(1+DAMAG ) 
T0PRE Time at which preload application begins 
DACFAIL Axial compressive displacement at which failure is initiated 
(positive value, length units) 
AXSHFL Flag to determine eﬀect on axial response of increa se of length of 
element due to shear displacement.  In this context , shear 
displacement excludes sliding within the clearance gap.  See 
Remark 4 . 
EQ.0: Shear-induced length increase treated as axial load . 
EQ.1: Shear-induced length increase is ignored. *.   
 b)  rotation, bending and shearing of the bolt itself;  and  
c)  deformation of the bearing surfaces while the bolt  itself remains almost 
rigid and perpendicular to the plates.  
The tension in the bolt might be expected to increa se when mechanism (b) oc- 
curs, because the length of the bolt itself has to increase (in this example, the 
plates are held the same distance apart); but tensi on would not increase in 
mechanisms (a) or (c).  In the LS-DYNA model, apply ing shear while holding 
the plates the same distance apart will cause the e lement to lengthen. When 
calculating the axial force in the bolt, *.  whether to tr eat these shear de- 
formations as contributing to changes of length of the bolt itself, and hence 
whether axial tension will be generated. 
5.  Hole Enlargement.   If HOLSHR is non-zero, shear deformation beyond t hat 
necessary to close the clearance gap enlarges the h ole in the plates and does not 
deform the bolt itself.  The force-deformation rela tion of this mechanism is still 
governed by LCSHR, and the deformation (that is, en largement of the hole) is 
tracked separately in each of the local - /u1D44C, + /u1D44C, -|u1D44D, and + |u1D44D directions.  Thus, for 
example, enlargement of the hole in the positive /u1D44C direction has no eﬀect on 
the position of the edge of the hole in the negativ e /u1D44C direction. 
6.  Output.  Beam “axial” or “X” force is the axial force in th e beam.  “shear-Y” and 
“shear-Z” are the shear forces.  Other output is wr itten to the d3plot  and 
d3thdt  ﬁles in the places where post-processors expect to  ﬁnd the stress and 
strain at the ﬁrst two integration points for integ rated beams. 
 
Integration 
Point Post-Processing Data 
Component Actual Meaning 
1 Axial Stress Change of length 
1 /u1D44B/u1D44C  Shear stress Sliding shear displacement in local /u1D44C 
1 |u1D44D /u1D44B  Shear stress Sliding shear displacement in local |u1D44D 
1 Plastic strain Resultant shear sliding displaceme nt 
1 Axial strain Axial plastic displacement 
2 Axial Stress Shear plastic displacement excluding  sliding 
2 XY Shear stress Not used *