: *.  
*.   
 *.   *.   
 If A  = B = 0.0, then a least square ﬁt is computed from tabulated uniaxial data via a 
load curve.  The following information should be de ﬁned: 
 VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
SGL i Specimen gauge length /u1D45∫|zeroCst for the ith  phase, see Figure M218-1 . 
SW i Specimen width for the ith  phase, see Figure M218-1 . 
ST i Specimen thickness for the ith  phase, see Figure M218-1 . 
LCID i Curve ID for the ith  phase, see *DEFINE_ CURVE, giving the force 
versus actual change ∆/u1D4:F in the gauge length.  See also Figure 
M218-2  for an alternative deﬁnition. 
X1, Y1, Z1 Coordinates of a point on the phase tran sition plane. 
X2, Y2, Z2 Coordinates of a point that deﬁnes the exterior nor mal with the 
ﬁrst point. 
THKFAC Scale factor applied to the shell thickness after t he phase 
transformation. 
Forcegauge
length
thickness
widthSection AAAAΔ gauge length
 Figure M218-1.   Uniaxial specimen for experimental data *.   
 Alternatively, the stress versus strain curve can a lso be input by setting the gauge 
length, thickness, and width to unity (1.0) and deﬁ ning the engineering strain in place 
of the change in gauge length and the nominal (engi neering) stress in place of the force, 
see Figure M218-1 . 
 
The least square ﬁt to the experimental data is per formed during the initialization phase 
and is a comparison between the ﬁt and the actual i nput is provided in the d3hsp  ﬁle.  It 
is a good idea to visually check to make sure it is  acceptable.  The coeﬃcients |u1D434 and |u1D43J 
are also printed in the output ﬁle.  It is also adv ised to use the material driver (see 
Appendix K) for checking out the material model. changeingaugelength
gaugelength=∆L
Lapplied force
initialarea=F
A0
Figure M218-2  The stress versus strain curve can used instead of the  force 
versus the change in the gauge length by setting the gauge length, thickness, 
and w idth to unity (1.0) and deﬁning the engineering strain in place of the 
change in gauge length and the nominal (engineering) st ress in place of the 
force.  *