: *.  
*.   
LS-DYNA R13 2-205 (MAT) *.   *.   
LS-DYNA R13 2-207 (MAT) the ringing that may otherwise be introduced into t he system by the sudden fracture. 
The number of steps for stress reduction is 20 by d efault (CVELO = 0.0) or it is 
internally computed if CVELO > 0.0 is given, that i s: 
|u1D4JBsteps = int |<racketleftCvJ/u1D4:F|u1D4J2Cst
C V ELO × ∆|u1D461|<racketriµhtCvJ  , 
where /u1D4:F|u1D4J2Cst is the characteristic element length and ∆|u1D461 is the time step size. 
 
After a tensile fracture, the element will not supp ort tensile stress on the fracture plane, 
but in compression will support both normal and she ar stresses.  The orientation of this 
fracture surface is tracked throughout the deformat ion and is updated to properly 
model ﬁnite deformation eﬀects.  If the maximum pri ncipal stress subsequently exceeds 
the fracture stress in another direction, the eleme nt fails isotropically.  In this case the 
element completely loses its ability to support any  shear stress or hydrostatic tension, 
and only compressive hydrostatic stress states are possible.  Thus, once isotropic failure 
has occurred, the material behaves like a ﬂuid. 
 
This model is applicable to elastic or elastoplasti c materials under signiﬁcant tensile or 
shear loading when fracture is expected.  Potential  applications include brittle materials 
such as ceramics as well as porous materials such a s concrete in cases where pressure 
hardening eﬀects are not signiﬁcant. 
 
Crack propagation behavior to adjacent elements can  be controlled using parameter 
SOFT for thin, shell-like structures (for example, only 2 or 3 solids over thickness).  
Additionally, LS-DYNA must know where the plane or solid element midplane is at 
each integration point for projection of crack plan e on this element midplane.  
Therefore, element numbering must be as shown in Figure M17-1 . Currently, only solid 
element type 1 is supported with that option. 8
1
2345
67
Figure M17-1.   Thin structure (2 elements over thickness) with crack s and 
necessary element numbering. *