 ............... ................................................... .... 2-800  
*. _EOS ........... .................................................. 2-991  
*.  [0,1 H,2,3a,3c,5,8B] {7}  *MAT 
LS-DYNA R13 2-5 (MAT)  *. _EOS [0,3c,5,8B] {16} 
 *.  *. _EOS *.   
 *.   *.   
  Card 2 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Variable LCIDC LCIDT LCSRC LCSRT SRFLAG LCFAIL EC RPCT 
Type I I I I F I F F 
Default 0 0 0 0 0.0 0 optional  0.0 
 
 VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
LCIDC Load curve ID deﬁning eﬀective stress as a function  of eﬀective 
plastic strain in compression.  Enter positive yiel d stress and 
plastic strain values when deﬁning this curve. 
LCIDT Load curve ID deﬁning eﬀective stress as a function  of eﬀective 
pla stic strain in tension.  Enter positive yield stres s and plastic 
strain values when deﬁning this curve. 
LCSRC Optional load curve ID deﬁning strain rate scaling factor on yield 
stress as a function of strain rate when the materi al is in 
compression 
LCSRT Optional load curve ID deﬁning strain rate scaling factor on yield 
stress as a function of strain rate when the materi al is in tension 
SRFLAG Formulation for rate eﬀects: 
EQ.0.0: total strain rate (based on the total strain tensor ) 
EQ.1.0: eﬀective strain rate (based on deviatoric portion o f the 
strain tensor)  
EQ.2.0: eﬀective plastic strain rate (viscoplastic) 
LCFAIL Optional load curve ID deﬁning eﬀective plastic str ain at failure 
as a function of strain rate.  If LCFAIL is speciﬁe d , FAIL is 
ignored.  See Remark 2 . 
EC Optional Young’s modulus for compression, > 0. 
RPCT Fraction of PT and PC, used to deﬁne mean stress at  which 
Young’s modulus is E and EC, respectively.  Young’s  modulus is 
E when mean stress > RPCT × PT , and EC when mean stress <
−RPCT × PC .  If the mean stress falls between –RPCT × PC  and 
RPCT ×PT , a linearly interpolated value is used. *.   
  Card 4 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Variable K        
Type F        
 
 VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
K Optional bulk modulus for the viscoelastic material .  If nonzero, a 
Kelvin type behavior will be obtained.  Generally, |u1D43∆ is set to zero.  
 
Viscoelastic Constant Cards.  Up to 6 cards may be input.  The next keyword (“*”)  
card terminates this input. 
 Card 5 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Variable Gi BETA i       
Type F F       
 
 VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
Gi Optional shear relaxation modulus for the ith  term 
BETA i Optional shear decay constant for the ith  term 
Remarks: 
1.  Stress-Strain Behavior.  The stress-strain behavior follows a diﬀerent curve  
in compression than it does in tension.  Tension is  determined by the sign of 
the mean stress where a positive mean stress (meani ng a negative pressure) is 
indicative of tension.  Two curves must be deﬁned g iving the yield stress as a 
function of eﬀective plastic strain for both the te nsion and compression re- 
gimes. 
Mean stress is an invariant which can be expressed as (|u1D7≠∆|u1D46JCst+ |u1D7≠∆|u1D466Cst+ |u1D7≠∆|u1D467Cst)/3.  PC 
and PT deﬁne a range of mean stress values within w hich interpolation is done 
between the tensile yield surface and compressive y ield surface.  PC and PT 
are not true material properties but are just a num erical convenience so that the 
transition from one yield surface to the other is n ot abrupt as the sign of the 
mean stress changes.  Both PC and PT are input as p ositive values as it is im- *. _EOS  *. _EOS  
This is  Material Type 155.  An isotropic elastic-plastic ma terial where unique yield 
stress as a function of plastic strain curves can b e deﬁned for compression and tension.  
Also, failure can occur based on a plastic strain o r a minimum time step size.  Rate 
eﬀects on the yield stress are modeled either by us ing the Cowper-Symonds strain rate 
model or by using two load curves that scale the yi eld stress values in compression and 
tension, respectively.  Material rate eﬀects, which  are independent of the plasticity 
model, are based on a 6-term Prony series Maxwell m ode that generates an additional 
stress tensor.  The viscous stress tensor is superi mposed on the stress tensor generated 
by the plasticity.  Pressure is deﬁned by an equati on of state, which is required to utilize 
this model.  This model is applicable to solid elem ents and SPH. 
Card Summary: 
Card 1.   This card is required. 
MID RO E PR C P FAIL TDEL 
Card 2.   This card is required. 
LCIDC LCIDT LCSRC LCSRT SRFLAG    
Card 3.   This card is required. 
PC PT PCUTC PCUTT PCUTF SCALEP SCALEE  
Card 4.   This card is required. 
K        
Card 5.   This card is optional.  Up to six cards may be inpu t.  The next keyword (“*”) 
card terminates this input. 
Gi BETA i       *. _EOS  
 Data Card Deﬁnitions: 
 Card 1 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Variable MID RO E PR C P FAIL TDEL 
Type A F F F F F F F 
Default none none none none 0.0 0.0 10 20  0.0 
 
 VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
MID Material identiﬁcation.  A unique number or label m ust be 
speciﬁed. 
RO Mass density 
E Young’s modulus 
PR Poisson’s ratio 
C Strain rate parameter, |u1D436; see Remarks below. 
P Strain rate parameter, |u1D4JD; see Remarks below. 
FAIL Failure ﬂag: 
LT.0.0: User deﬁned failure subroutine, matusr_24  in 
dyn21.F , is called to determine failure 
EQ.0.0: Failure is not considered.  This option is recommen ded 
if failure is not of interest since many calculatio ns will 
be saved. 
GT.0.0: Plastic strain to failure.  When the plastic strain  reaches 
this value, the element is deleted from the calcula tion. 
TDEL Minimum time step size for automatic element d eletion 
 *. _EOS  
  VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
PC Compressive mean stress at which the yield stress f ollows load 
curve ID LCIDC.  If the pressure falls between PC a nd PT, a 
weighted average of the two load curves is used.   
PT Tensile mean stress at which the yield stress follo ws load curve 
ID LCIDT. 
PCUTC Pressure cut-oﬀ in compression.  When the pre ssure cut- oﬀ is 
reached, the deviatoric stress tensor is set to zer o.  The 
compressive pressure is not, however, limited to PC UTC.  Like 
the yield stress, PCUTC is scaled to account for ra te eﬀects. 
PCUTT Pressure cut-oﬀ in tension.  When the pressur e cut- oﬀ is reached, 
the deviatoric stress tensor and tensile pressure i s set to zero.  
Like the yield stress, PCUTT is scaled to account f or rate eﬀects. 
PCUTF Pressure cut-oﬀ ﬂag: 
EQ.0.0: inactive 
EQ.1.0: active 
SCALEP Scale factor applied to the yield stress aft er the pressure cut- oﬀ is 
reached in either compression or tension.  If SCALE P = 0.0 
(default), the deviatoric stress is set to zero aft er the cut- oﬀ is 
reached. 
SCALEE Scale fa ctor applied to the yield stress after the strain e xceeds the 
failure strain set by FAIL.  If SCALEE = 0.0 (default), the 
deviatoric strain is set to zero if the failure str ain is exceeded.  If 
both SCALEP > 0 and SCALEE > 0 and both failure con ditions are met, 
then the minimum scale factor is used.  
 
 Card 4 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Variable K        
Type F        
 
 VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
K Optional bulk modulus for the viscoelastic material .  If nonzero a 
Kelvin type behavior will be obtained.  Generally, K is set to zero.  *. _EOS  
 |u1D7≠≠̇=/radical.v2|u1D7≠≠̇|u1D4J6Cst|u1D4J7Cst|u1D7≠≠̇|u1D4J6Cst|u1D4J7Cst   . 
History Variables: 
History Variable Description 
4 Tensile pressure cutoﬀ (set to zero if 
tensile or compressive failure occurs) 
5 The cutoﬀ ﬂag, initially equals 1; set to 
0 if tensile or compressive failure 
occurs. 
6 The failure mode ﬂag 
EQ.0:  No failure 
EQ.1: Compressive failure 
EQ.2:  Tensile failure 
EQ.3:  Failure by plastic strain 
7 The current ﬂow stress *