: *.  
*.   
 *.  (4 cards fo llow) 
*. _ANISO (5 ca rds follow) 
Orthotropic Card 1.   Card 1 format used for ORTHO keyword option. 
 Card 1 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Variable MID RO EA EB EC PRBA PRCA PRCB 
Type A8 F F F F F F F 
 
Orthotropic Card 2.   Card 2 format used for ORTHO keyword option. 
 Card 2 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Variable GAB GBC GCA AOPT G SIGF   
Type F F F F F F   
 *.   
 Remarks: 
1.  A layer of this material may be placed at a bounda ry of a bounded domain to 
simulate unboundedness of the domain at that bounda ry: the layer absorbs 
and attenuates waves propagating outward from the d omain, without any 
signiﬁcant reﬂection of the waves back into the bou nded domain.  The layer 
cannot support any static displacement.  
2.  It is assumed the material in the bounded domain n ear the layer is, or behaves 
like, a  linear ortho/anisotropic material.  The ma terial properties of the layer 
should be set to the corresponding properties of th is material.  
3.  The layer should form a cuboid box around the boun ded domain, with the 
axes of the box aligned with the coordinate axes.  Various faces of this box may 
be open, as required by the geometry of the problem , e.g., for a half-space 
problem, the “top” of the box should be open. 
4.  Internally, LS-DYNA will partition the entire PML into regions which form the 
“faces”, “edges” and “corners” of the above cuboid box, and generate a new 
material for each region.  This partitioning will b e visible in the d3plot ﬁle.  The 
user may safely ignore this partitioning. 
5.  The layer should have 5 - 10 elements through its depth.  Typically, 5 - 6 
elements are suﬃcient if the excitation source is r easonably distant from the 
layer, and 8 - 10 elements if it is close.  The siz e of the elements should be simi- 
lar to that of elements in the bounded domain near the layer, and should be 
small enough to suﬃciently discretize all signiﬁcan t wavelengths in the prob- 
lem. 
6.  The nodes on the outer boundary of the layer shoul d be fully constrained.  
7.  The stress and strain values reported by this mate rial do not have any physical 
signiﬁcance. *