: *. : *.  
*.   
 *.   *.   
 By default, cable pretension is applied only at the  start of the analysis.  If the cable is 
attached to ﬂexible structure, deformation of the s tructure will result in relaxation of the 
cables, which will therefore lose some or all of th e intended preload. 
 
This can be overcome by using TMAXF0. In this case,  it is expected that the structure 
will deform under the loading from the cables and t hat this deformation will take time 
to occur during the analysis.  The unstressed lengt h of the cable will be continuously 
adjusted until time TMAXF0 such that the force is m aintained at the user-deﬁned pre-
tension force – this is analogous to operation of t he pre-tensioning screws in real cables.  
After time TMAXF0, the unstressed length is ﬁxed an d the force in the cable is 
determined in the normal way using the stiﬀness and  change of length. 
 
Sudden application of the cable forces at time zero  may result in an excessively dynamic 
response during pre-tensioning.  A ramp-up time TRA MP may optionally be deﬁned.  
The cable force ramps up from zero at time TSTART t o the full pre-tension F0 at time 
TSTART + TRAMP. TMAXF0, if set less than TSTART + T RAMP by the user, will be 
internally reset to TSTART + TRAMP. 
 
If the model does not use dynamic relaxation, it is  recommended that damping be 
applied during pre-tensioning so that the structure  reaches a steady state by time 
TMAXF0. 
 
If the model uses dynamic relaxation, TSTART, TRAMP , and TMAXF0 apply only 
during dynamic relaxation.  The cable preload at th e end of dynamic relaxation carries 
over to the start of the subsequent transient analy sis.  
 
The cable mass will be calculated from length × area × density if VOL is set to zero on 
*SECTION_BEAM. Otherwise, VOL × density will be used. 
 
If OUTPUT is set to 1, one additional history varia ble representing axial strain is output 
to d3plot for the cable elements.  This axial strai n can be plotted by LS-PrePost by 
selecting the beam component labeled as “axial stre ss”.  Though the label says “axial 
stress”, it is actually axial strain. 
 
If the stress-strain load curve option, LCID, is co mbined with preload, two types of 
behavior are available: 
1.  If the preload is applied using the TMAXF0/TRAMP m ethod, the initial strain 
is calculated from the stress-strain curve to achie ve the desired preload. 
2.  If TMAXF0/TRAMP are not used, the preload force is  taken as additional to 
the force calculated from the stress/strain curve.  Thus, the total stress in the 
cable will be higher than indicated by the stress/s train curve. *