: *.  
*.   *.   
LS-DYNA R13 2-275 (MAT)  
 VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
MID Material identiﬁcation.  A unique number or label m ust be 
speciﬁed (see *PART). 
RO Mass density 
E Young’s modulus 
PR Poisson’s ratio 
LCSS The absolute value of LC SS is a load curve ID for eﬀective stress 
as a function of eﬀective plastic strain (this load  curve is optional).  
The ﬁrst data point, at zero plastic strain, indica tes the initial yield 
stress. 
For a negative value of LCSS, negative values of SI G_ASS, SIG_-
ASF, SIG_SAS, SIG_ SAF will indicate dependence on plastic 
strain; see below. σ
ǫσAX
f
σAS
s
σSA
s
σSA
f
ǫL
Figure M30-1.   Superelastic Behavior for a Shape Memory Material *.   
LS-DYNA R13 2-277 (MAT)  VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
ALPHA Parameter measuring the diﬀerence between material responses 
in tension and compression (set alpha = 0 for no diﬀerence).  Also, 
see the following remarks. 
YMRT Young’s modulus for the martensite if it is diﬀeren t from the 
modulus for the austeni te.  Defaults to the austenite modulus if it 
is set to zero. 
LCID_AS Load curve ID or table ID for the forward  phase change 
(conversion of austenite into martensite). 
1.  When LCID_AS is a load curve ID  the curve is t aken to be 
eﬀective stress as a function of martensite fractio n (rang- 
ing from 0 to 1). 
2.  When LCID_AS is a table ID  the table deﬁnes for each 
phase transition rate (derivative of martensite fra ction) a 
load curve ID specifying the stress as a function o f mar- 
tensite fraction for that phase transition rate.   
The stress as a function of martensite fraction cur ve for 
the lowest value of the phase transition rate is us ed if the 
phase transition rate falls below the minimum value .  
Likewise, the stress as a fu nction of martensite fraction 
curve for the highest value of phase transition rat e is 
used if the phase transition rate exceeds the maxim um 
value. 
3.  The values of SIG_ASS and SIG_ ASF are overwritten 
when this option is used. 
LCID_SA Load curve ID or table ID for reverse  phase change (conversion of 
martensite into austenite). 
1.  When LCID_SA is a load curve ID , the curve is taken to be 
eﬀective stress as a function of martensite fractio n (rang- 
ing from 0 to 1). 
2.  When LCID_SA is a table ID , the table deﬁnes for each 
phase transition rate (derivative of martensite fra ction) a 
load curve ID specifying the stress as a function o f mar- 
tensite fraction for that phase transition rate. 
The stress as a function of martensite fraction cur ve for 
the lowest value of the phase transition rate is us ed if the *.   
LS-DYNA R13 2-279 (MAT) The investigated problem is the complete loading-un loading test in tension and 
compression.  The uniaxial Cauchy stress versus the  logarithmic strain is plotted in 
Figure M30-2 .
Cauchy Stress
-1000
0.050
-0.05-0.1500
0-5001000
True Strain
 Figure M30-2.  Complete loading-unloading test in tension and compression . *