 ...................................... ................................................... ............................ 2-1121  
*.  [1H] {22} 
 *.  *.   *.   
This is Material Type 174, for Hughes-Liu beam elem ents only.  The material model can 
represent plain concrete only, reinforcing steel on ly, or a smeared combination of 
concrete and reinforcement.  The main emphasis of t his material model is the cyclic 
behavior – it is intended primarily for seismic ana lysis. 
 
 Card 1 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Variable MID RO EUNL PR FC EC1 EC50 RESID 
Type A8 F F F F F F F 
Default none none See 
Remarks 0.0 none 0.0022 See 
Remarks 0.2 
 
 Card 2 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Variable FT UNITC (blank) (blank) (blank) ESOFT LCHAR OUTPUT 
Type F F F F F F F F 
Default See 
Remarks 1.0 none none none See 
Remarks none 0 
 
 Card 3 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Variable FRACR YMREIN PRREIN SYREIN SUREIN ESHR EUR RREINF 
Type F F F F F F F F 
Default 0.0 none 0.0 0.0 SYREIN  0.03 0.2 4.0 
 
 VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
MID Material identiﬁcation.  A unique number or label n ot exceeding 8 
characters must be speciﬁed. *.   
  VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
RO Mass density 
EUNL Initial unloading elastic modulus (See Remarks ). 
PR Poisson’s ratio. 
FC Cylinder strength (stress units) 
EC1 Strain at which stress FC is reached. 
EC50 Strain at which the stress has dropped to 50% FC 
RESID Residual strength factor 
FT Maximum tensile stress 
UNITC Factor to convert stress units to MPa (See Re marks) 
ESOFT Slope of stress-strain curve post-cracking in  tension 
LCHAR Characteristic length for strain-softening be havior 
OUTPUT Output ﬂag controlling what is written as “p lastic strain” 
EQ.0.0: Curvature 
EQ.1.0: “High-tide” plastic strain in reinforcement 
FRACR Fraction of reinforcement (e.g. for 1% reinforcemen t 
FRACR = 0.01) 
YMREIN Young’s Modulus of reinforcement 
PRREIN Poisson’s Ratio of reinforcement 
SYREIN Yield stress of reinforcement 
SUREIN Ultimate stress of reinforcement 
ESHR Strain at which reinforcement begins to harden  
EUR Strain at which reinforcement reaches ultimate stress 
R_REINF Dimensionless Ramberg- Osgood parameter r. If zero, a default 
value r = 4.0 will be used.  If set to - 1, parameters will be 
calculated from Kent & Park formulae.  (See Remarks ) *. , one with FRAC R = 0, the other with 
FRACR = 1. Then, by assigning one or other of these  Part IDs to each integration point 
the reinforcement can be applied to the correct loc ations within the section of the beam. 
Concrete: 
In monotonic compression, the approach of Park and Kent, as described in Park & 
Paulay [1975] is used.  The material follows a para bolic stress-strain curve up to a 
maximum stress equal to the cylinder strength FC; t herafter the strength decays linearly 
with strain until the residual strength is reached.   Default values for some material 
parameters will be calculated automatically as foll ows: 
EC50 =(3 + 0.2 9|u1D439|u1D436)
145|u1D439|u1D436 − 1000  
where FC is in MPa as per Park and Kent test data. 
E U NL =  initial tangent slope =2FC 
EC1  
User-deﬁned values for EUNL lower than this are not  permitted, but higher values may 
be deﬁned  if desired. 
FT = 1.4 |parenleftCvJFC 
10 |parenriµhtCvJ|twoCst
|threeCst 
where FC is in MPa as per Park and Kent test data. 
ESOFT = E U NL 
User-deﬁned values higher than EUNL are not permitt ed. 
 
UNITC is used only to calculate default values for the above parameters from FC. 
 
Strain-softening behavior tends to lead to deformat ions being concentrated in one 
element, and hence the overall force-deﬂection beha vior of the structure can be mesh-
size-dependent if the softening is characterized by  strain.  To avoid this, a characteristic 
length (LCHAR) may be deﬁned.  This is the length o f specimen (or element) that 
would exhibit the deﬁned monotonic stress-strain re lationship.  LS-DYNA adjusts the 
stress-strain relationship after ultimate load for each element, such that all elements 
irrespective of their length will show the same deﬂ ection during strain softening (i.e. *.   
 between ultimate load and residual load).  Therefor e, although deformation will still be 
concentrated in one element, the load-deﬂection beh avior should be the same 
irrespective of element size.  For tensile behavior , ESOFT is similarly scaled. 
 
 
 
Cyclic behavior is broadly suggested by Blakeley an d Park [1973] as described in Park & 
Paulay [1975]; the stress-strain response lies with in the Park-Kent envelope, and is 
characterized by stiﬀ initial unloading response at  slope EUNL followed by a less stiﬀ 
response if it unloads to less than half the curren t strength.  Reloading stiﬀness 
degrades with increasing strain. 
 
In tension, the stress rises linearly with strain u ntil a tensile limit FT is reached.  
Thereafter the stiﬀness and strength decays with in creasing strain at a rate ESOFT. The 
stiﬀness also decays such that unloading always ret urns to strain at which the stress 
most recently changed to tensile. 
 Figure M174-1  
1 
2 3,14 4 5,12 
7 7,9 
13  10 11 
16  .   *.  – reinforcement – RRE-
INF = 4.0 *.   
 where |u1D7≠≠ and |u1D7≠∆ are strain and stress, |u1D7≠≠|u1D46≠Cst is the strain at zero stress, E is Young’s Modulus, 
and r and |u1D7≠∆/u1D4:6.st |u1D43BCst  are as deﬁned below  
 
Two options are given for calculation r and |u1D7≠∆/u1D4:6.st |u1D43BCst , which is performed at each stress 
reversal: 
1.  If RREINF is input as -1, r and σCH  are calculated internally from formulae 
given in Kent and Park.  Parameter r depends on the  number of stress rever- 
sals.  Parameter |u1D7≠∆/u1D4:6.st |u1D43BCst  depends on the plastic strain that occurred betwee n the 
previous two stress reversals.  The formulae were s tatistically derived from 
experiments, but may not ﬁt all circumstances.  In particular, large diﬀerences 
in behavior may be caused by the presence or absenc e of small stress reversals 
such as could be caused by high frequency oscillati ons.  Therefore, results 
might sometimes be unduly sensitive to small change s in the input data. 
2.  If RREINF is entered by the user or left blank, r is held constant while |u1D7≠∆/u1D4:6.st |u1D43BCst  is 
calculated on each reversal such that the Ramberg-O sgood curve meets the 
monotonic stress-strain curve at the point from whi ch it last unloaded, e.g. 
points 6 and 8 are coincident in the graph below.  The default setting RRE-
INF = 4.0 gives similar hysteresis behavior to that  described by Kent & Park 
but is unlikely to be so sensitive to small changes  of input data. 
Output: 
It is recommended to use BEAMIP on *DATABASE_EXTENT _BINARY to request stress 
and strain output at the individual integration poi nts.  If this is done, for 