: *.  
*.   *.   
  Card 2 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Variable EFAIL       NF 
Type F       F 
 
 Card 3 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Variable RS ASFF  TRUE_T CON_ID RFILTF JTOL  
Type F I  F F F F  
 
 VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
MID Material identiﬁcation.  A unique number or label m ust be 
speciﬁed (see *PART). 
RO Mass density 
E Young’s modulus.   
LT.0.0:  |E| is the Young’s modulus.  E < 0 invokes uniaxial 
stress for solid spot welds with the transverse str esses 
assumed to be zero.  See Remark 1 . This is for when the 
keyword option is unset (<BLANK>) only. 
PR Poisson’s ratio 
DT Time step size for mass scaling, ∆|u1D461 
TFAIL Failure time if nonzero.  If zero, this optio n is ignored. 
EFAIL Eﬀective plastic strain in weld material at f ailure.  See Remark 2 . 
NF Number of failure function evaluations stored for ﬁ ltering by time 
averaging.  The default value is set to zero which is generally 
recommended unless oscillatory resultant forces are  observed in 
the time history databases.  Even though these weld s should not 
oscillate signiﬁcantly, this option was added for c onsistency with 
the other spot weld options.  NF aﬀects the storage  since it is 
necessary to store the failure terms.  When NF is n onzero, the 
resultants in the output databases are ﬁltered.  NF cannot exceed 
30. *.   
 constrained to the mid-plane of shell elements, suc h contraction is only possi- 
ble to the degree that the shell element contracts.   In other words, the uniaxial 
stress state cannot be represented by the weld.  Fo r plastic strain-based dam- 
age, this eﬀect can be particularly apparent as it causes tensile stress to contin- 
ue to grow very large as the stress state becomes v ery nearly triaxial tension.  
In this stress state, plastic strain grows very slo wly so it appears that damage 
calculation is failing to knock down the stress.  B y simply assuming that the 
transverse stresses are zero, the plastic strain gr ows as expected and damage is 
much more eﬀective 
2.  Connection Properties.  This weld material is modeled with isotropic 
hardening plasticity.  The yield stress and constan t hardening modulus are 
assumed to be those of the welded shell elements as  deﬁned in a *DEFINE_-
CONNECTION_PROPERTIES table.  *DEFINE_CONNECTION_PR OPERTIES 
data also deﬁne a failure function and the damage t ype.  The interpretation of 
EFAIL and RS is determined by the choice of damage type.  This is discussed in 
Remark 4 on *DEFINE_CONNECTION_PROPERTIES. 
3.  Solid Weld Element Thickness.  Solid weld elements are tied to the mid-plane 
of shell materials and so typically have a thicknes s that is half the sum of the 
thicknesses of the welded shell sections.  As a res ult, a weld under shear load- 
ing can be subject to an artiﬁcially large moment w hich will be balanced by 
normal forces transferred through the tied contact.   These normal forces will 
cause the normal term in the failure calculation to  be artiﬁcially high.  Input- 
ting a TRUE_T that is smaller than the modeled thic kness, for example, 10%-
30% of true thickness will scale down the normal fo rce that results from the 
balancing moment and provide more realistic failure  calculations.  TRUE_T 
eﬀects only the failure calculation, not the weld e lement behavior.  If TRUE_-
T = 0 or data is omitted, the modeled weld element thickness is used. 
4.  Weld Assembly Failure.  For weld elements in an assembly (see RPBHX on 
*CONTROL_SPOTWELD_BEAM or *DEFINE_HEX_SPOTWELD_ASSE M-
BLY), the failure criterion is evaluated using the assembly cross section.  If 
damage is not active, all elements will be deleted when the failure criterion is 
met.  If damage is active, then damage is calculate d independently in each 
element of the assembly.  By default, elements of t he assembly are deleted as 
damage in each element is complete.  If ASFF = 1, t hen failure and deletion of 
all elements in the assembly will occur simultaneou sly when damage is com- 
plete in any one of the elements. 
5.  Output.  Solid element force resultants for *.   *