: *.  
*.   
 *.   *.   
  VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
I Area moment of inertia for bending/compression st iﬀ ness; see 
Remark 5 . 
J Torsional constant for bending/compression stiﬀness ; see 
Remark 5 . 
AS Shear area for bending/compression stiﬀness; see  Remark 5 . 
F Maximum force in compression/tension; see Remark 5 . 
M Maximum torque; see Remark 5 . 
R Rotational mass scaling factor; see Remark 5 . 
P1DOFF Part ID oﬀset for internally created 1D, bar -type, belt parts for 2D 
seatbelt of this material, that is, the IDs of newly  created 1D belt 
parts will be P1DOFF + 1, P1DOFF + 2, …  If zero, the maximum 
ID of user-deﬁned parts is used as the part ID oﬀse t. 
FORM Formulation of the translated fabric material; see FORM of 
*.   *.   
 2.  Damping.   A small amount of damping is automatically includ ed.  This 
reduces high frequency oscillation, but, with reali stic force-strain input charac- 
teristics and loading rates, does not signiﬁcantly alter the overall forces-strain 
performance.  The damping forced opposes the relati ve motion of the nodes 
and is limited by stability: 
|u1D437 =0.1 ×  mass × relati v e v elocity 
 time step si ze  
In addition, the magnitude of the damping force is limited to one-tenth of the 
force calculated from the force-strain relationship  and is zero when the belt is 
slack.  Damping forces are not applied to elements attached to sliprings and 
retractors. 
3.  Nodal Masses.  MPUL, the mass per unit length, is used to calculat e the nodal 
masses during initialization. 
4.  Minimum Length.   LMIN, the “minimum” length, controls the shortest  length 
allowed in any element and determines when an eleme nt passes through 
sliprings or is absorbed into the retractors.  One tenth of a typical initial ele- 
ment length is usually a good choice. 
5.  Bending and Compression Stiffness for 1D Elements.   Since one-
dimensional elements do not possess any bending or compression stiﬀness, 
dynamic analysis is mandatory during an implicit an alysis that includes belts.  
However, one dimensional belt elements can  be used in implicit statics by asso- 
ciating them with bending/compression properties wi th the ﬁrst optional card.  
Two-dimensional belt elements are not supported wit h this feature. 
To achieve bending and compression stiﬀness in one- dimensional belts, the 
belt element is overlayed with a Belytschko-Schwer beam element (see *SEC-
TION_BEAM, ELFORM = 2, for a more comprehensive des cription of ﬁelds A, 
I, J and AS) with circular cross section.  These el ements have 6 degrees of free- 
dom including rotational degrees of freedom.  The m aterial used in this context 
is an elastic-ideal-plastic material where the elas tic part is governed by the 
Young’s modulus, |u1D438.  Two yield values, F (the maximum compression/ten sion 
force) and M (the maximum torque), are used as uppe r bounds for the result- 
ants.  The bending/compression forces and moments f rom this contribution 
are accumulated to the force from the seatbelt itse lf.  Since the main purpose is 
to eliminate the singularities in bending and compr ession, it is recommended 
to choose the bending and compression properties in  the optional card careful- 
ly so as to not signiﬁcantly inﬂuence the overall r esponse. 
For the sake of completeness, this feature is also supported by the explicit inte- 
grator; therefore, a rotational nodal mass is neede d.  Each of the two nodes of 
an element gets a contribution from the belt that i s calculated as RMASS =*