: *.  
*.   
 *.   *.   
  Card 2 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Variable LCIDC LCIDT LCSRC LCSRT SRFLAG    
Type I I I I F    
Default 0 0 0 0 0.0    
 
 VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
LCIDC Load curve ID deﬁning eﬀective yield stress a s a function of 
eﬀective plastic strain in compression 
LCIDT Load curve ID deﬁning eﬀective yield stress as a fu nction of 
eﬀective plastic strain in tension. 
LCSRC Optional load curve ID deﬁning strain rate scaling eﬀect on yield 
stress when the materi al is in compression (compressive yield 
stress scaling factor as a function of strain rate) . 
LCSRT Optional load curve ID deﬁning strain rate scaling eﬀect on yield 
stress when the material is in tension (tensile yie ld stress scaling 
factor as a function of strain rate). 
SRFLAG Formulation for rate eﬀects: 
EQ.0.0: Total strain rate 
EQ.1.0: Deviatoric strain rate 
 
 Card 3 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Variable PC PT PCUTC PCUTT PCUTF SCALEP SCALEE  
Type F F F F F F F  
Default 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0  
 *.   
  
Viscoelastic Constant Cards.  Card format for viscoelastic constants.  Up to 6 ca rds 
may be input.  The next keyword (“*”) cards termina tes this input.   
 Card 5 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Variable Gi BETA i       
Type F F       
 
 VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
Gi Optional shear relaxation modulus for the ith  term 
BETA i Optional shear decay constant for the ith  term 
Remarks: 
The eﬀective yield stress as a function of eﬀective  plastic strain behavior follows a 
diﬀerent curve in compression than it does in tensi on.  Tension is determined by the 
sign of the mean stress where a positive mean stres s (meaning a negative pressure) is 
indicative of tension.  Two curves must be deﬁned g iving the yield stress as a function 
of eﬀective plastic strain.  One curve is for the t ensile regime and the other curve is for 
the compressive regime. 
 
Mean stress is an invariant which can be expressed as |parenleftCv2|u1D7≠∆|u1D46JCst+ |u1D7≠∆|u1D466Cst+ |u1D7≠∆|u1D467Cst|parenriµhtCv2 3 ⁄. PC and PT 
deﬁne a range of mean stress values within which in terpolation is done between the 
tensile yield surface and compressive yield surface .  PC and PT are not true material 
properties but are just a numerical convenience so that the transition from one yield 
surface to the other is not as abrupt as the sign o f the mean stress changes.  Both PC, PT, 
PCUTC, and PCUTT may all be input as positive value s.  It is implied that PC and 
PCUTC are compressive values and that PT and PCUTT are tensile values.  The 
algebraic sign given these variables by the user is  inconsequential. 
 
Strain rate may be accounted for by using either tw o curves of yield stress scaling factor 
as a function of strain rate or a Cowper and Symond s model.  The two curves in the 
former approach are used directly, that is, the cur ves are not rediscretized before being 
used by the material model.   The Cowper and Symond s model scales the yield stress 
with the factor: 
1 + |parenleftCvJ|u1D7≠≠̇
|u1D436|parenriµhtCvJ|oneCst|u1D4JDCst/fraction.v2
  , 
where |u1D7≠≠̇ is the strain rate, *