: *.  
*.   
 *.   *.   
  VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
GMODDP Depth at which shear modulus (GMOD) is corre ct 
PHIDP Depth at which angle of friction (PHI) is cor rect 
CVALDP Depth at which cohesion value (CVAL) is corr ect 
PSIDP Depth at which dilation angle (PSI) is correc t 
GMODGR Gradient at which shear modulus (GMOD) incre ases with depth 
PHIGR Gradient at which friction angle (PHI) increa ses with depth 
CVALGR Gradient at which cohesion value (CVAL) incr eases with depth 
PSIGR Gradient at which dilation angle (PSI) increa ses with depth 
DIP Angle of the plane in degrees below the horizon tal 
DIPANG Plan view angle (degrees) of downhill vector  drawn on the plane 
CPLANE Cohesion for shear behavior on plane 
PHPLANE Friction angle for shear behavior on plane (degrees) 
TPLANE Tensile strength across plane (generally zer o or very small) 
SHRMAX Max shear stress on plane (upper limit, independent  of 
compression) 
LOCAL EQ.0:  DIP and DIPANG are with respect to the global axes  
Remarks: 
1.  The joint plane orientations are deﬁned by the ang le of a “downhill vector” 
drawn on the plane, i.e. the vector is oriented wit hin the plane to obtain the 
maximum possible downhill angle.  DIP is the angle of this line below the hor- 
izontal.  DIPANG is the plan-view angle of the line  (pointing down hill) meas- 
ured clockwise from the global Y-axis about the glo bal Z-axis. 
2.  The joint planes rotate with the rigid body motion  of the elements, irrespective 
of whether their initial deﬁnitions are in the glob al or local axis system. 
3.  The full facilities of the modiﬁed Drucker Prager model for the matrix material 
can be used – see description of Material type 193.  Alternatively, to speed up 
the calculation, the ELASTIC ﬂag can be set to 1, i n which case the yield surface *.   
  Extra Variable 13: maximum shear utilization to da te for plane 1 
 Extra Variable 14: maximum shear utilization to da te for plane 2 
 Extra Variable 15: maximum shear utilization to da te for plane 3 
11.  Joint planes would generally be deﬁned in the glob al axis system if they are 
taken from survey data.  However, the material mode l can also be used to rep- 
resent masonry, in which case the weak planes repre sent the cement and lie 
parallel to the local element axes. *