: *. : *.  
*.   
 *.   *.   
  VARIABLE   DESCRIPTION  
HOLSHR Flag for hole enlargement due to shear (see Remark 5 ): 
EQ.0: Hole does not enlarge due to shear deformation. 
NE.0: Shear deformation after bolt contacts the inner dia meter 
of the hole enlarges the hole.   
Remarks: 
1.  Bolted Joint Geometry.   The element represents a bolted joint. The nodes of 
the beam should be thought of as representing the p oints at the centers of the 
holes in the plates that are joined by the bolt.  W e recommend using 
SCOOR = -13 or +13 on *SECTION_BEAM. 
The axial direction is initially the line connectin g node 1 to node 2. The axial 
response is tensile only.  Instead of generating a compressive axial load, a gap 
is assumed to develop between the bolt head (or nut ) and the surface of the 
plate.  Contact between the bolted surfaces must be  modelled separately using 
*CONTACT. 
2.  Yield Force Curves.  Curves LCAX and LCSHR give yield force as a functi on 
of plastic displacement for the axial and shear dir ections, respectively.  The 
force increments are calculated from the elastic st iﬀnesses, subject to the yield 
force limits given by the curves. 
3.  Sliding Shear Displacement.   CLEAR allows the bolt to slide in shear, 
resisted by friction between bolt head/nut and the surfaces of the plates, from 
the initial position at the center of the hole.  CL EAR is the total sliding shear 
displacement before contact occurs between the bolt  shank and the inside sur- 
face of the hole.  Sliding shear displacement is no t included in the displace- 
ment used for LCSHR; LCSHR is intended to represent  the behavior after the 
bolt shank contacts the edge of the hole. 
4.  Shear Deformation and Axial Tension.   If KSHR and LCSHR represent 
deformation and rotation of the bolt itself, the de fault setting AXSHFL = 0 is 
recommended.  On the other hand, if KSHR and LCSHR represent deformation 
of the bearing surfaces, AXSHFL = 1 is recommended.   
The explanation is as follows.  Consider the case w here a shear displacement is 
applied to the bolted joint, while the plates are c onstrained to remain the same 
distance apart.  Mechanisms by which a bolted joint  can displace in the shear 
direction include: 
a)  the bolt sliding within a clearance gap;  *.   
 Integration 
Point Post-Processing Data 
Component Actual Meaning 
2 ZX Shear stress Not used 
2 Plastic strain Not used 
2 Axial strain Not used *